Opening Cutscene


Bat Cop: (internal) I knew I was in for trouble when the chief called me into the office that evening.


Fat Cat: Alright, Bat Cop. Here’s the scoop. We finally tracked down that thief who’s been stealing all the cheese. Dirty Rat is a known cheddar runner who is hiding out in the warehouse district. It’s your job to go and catch him.
Bat Cop: Am I going to have any backup on this one, chief?
Fat Cat: Backup? For one scrawny rat? Yer both rodents, this should be an easy collar.
Bat Cop: (internal) I didn’t correct his mistake. (external) I don’t know, chief, this seems like an awfully big operation for a small time player like Dirty Rat. Something doesn’t add up.
Fat Cat: Do I pay you to think, Bat Cop? NO! I pay you to follow orders, and your ORDERS are to bring that rat to me. And if you don’t, it’s your badge! Now go get him.


Level Start


Bat Cop: (internal) I step out of the rain-slicked streets of Manbattan into the dust-choked warehouse on the wharf. My ears were twitching, because nothing about this made sense. But orders are orders. I have to sneak up on this rat and catch him without tipping him off with my sonar.


Bat Cop and Dirty Rat See Each Other


Bat Cop: Hold it right there, ya fink!
Dirty Rat: Cheese it! The fuzz is here!
Bat Cop: (internal) Rats. Now I have to chase him into a corner before he gets to the exit. And a cornered rat always fights the hardest. This is going to be ugly.


Bat End (Dirty Rat Escapes)


Dirty Rat: Too late, Bat Cop! You’ll never find me now!
Bat Cop: (internal) I hated to admit it, but he was right. Time to report back to the chief.


Fade to final screen with Bat Cop handing over his badge


Fat Cat: I can’t believe you let him get away. You’re finished, Bat Cop. You ruffled too many feathers and now you can’t even bring in a small time crook like Dirty Rat. I need your badge.


Alternate Bad End (Dirty Rat kills Bat Cop)


Bat Cop: Arrgh!
Dirty Rat: Should’ve known better than to corner me, copper! Now you’ll sleep with the fishes!


Good End (Bat Cop Catches Dirty Rat)


Bat Cop: Gotcha! You’re under arrest, Rat.
Dirty Rat: Wait! I’m being set up! You have to believe me! I’m just a small time guy. You turn me in, and I’m kitty litter.
Bat Cop: Save it. You’re coming in with me.


Fade to screen with Fat Cat congratulating Bat Cop


Fat Cat: Good job, Bat Cop. You didn’t let me down for a change.
Bat Cop: All in a day’s work, sir. Something still doesn’t feel right, though.
Fat Cat: Every day with you. Look. You’re a cop. He’s a crook. He’s in jail now. It’s that simple, right? Black and white.
Bat Cop: (internal) Yeah, and in my experience, things always come in shades of gray.


Final newspaper header with Dirty Rat behind bars


Potential Secret Ending (Bat Cop finds evidence AND catches Dirty Rat)


This is just an idea for an optional challenge if we have time. Feel free to cut.


Bat Cop: Gotcha! You’re under arrest, Rat.
Dirty Rat: Wait! I’m being set up! You have to believe me! I’m just a small time guy. You turn me in, and I’m kitty litter.
Bat Cop: Talk.


Fade to same screen as Bad End scene, but with different dialogue


Fat Cat: I can’t believe you let him get away. You’re finished, Bat Cop. You ruffled too many feathers and now you can’t even bring in a small time crook like Dirty Rat. I need your badge.
Bat Cop: You can have it. I’m finished working for a dirty cop like you. I know you’re the real mastermind behind the cheese smuggling, and now the Dark Times knows about it too. You’re going down, Fat Cat.


Final newspaper header with Fat Cat behind bars